# 1 Financial Internet principles

*Financial Internet is a situation in which all accounting systems use uniform APIs to manage ownership rights*

## 1.1 Limitations of existing financial accounting systems

Digitizing accounting systems is a quite recent trend but traces its roots back to the 1970s. Internet attacks were not 
a concern those days, which is one of the reasons why appropriate security mechanisms were not designed for the original 
architecture. The communication processes were not digitized until the 1990s. Regulation (reporting, AML, KYC, etc.) was 
lagging further—and even today, it is still paper-based in many cases. As a consequence, accounting systems have 
inherited many legacy mechanisms, resulting in a variety of challenges.

Up to a certain point, engineers and system architects managed to cope with these issues—mostly through extending or 
trying to adapt the existing (legacy) architecture. However, the architecture was not designed to deal with new threats 
and problems.

Meanwhile, the Internet is expanding, and the majority of global social processes are digitalizing. Not only our social 
relationships have already changed (with the appearance of Facebook and other social networks), but also the general 
way we interact has acquired a different, more accessible and global, nature. The next step is the transition of our 
financial relationships to the Internet. But,  technologically, we are not (yet) ready.

Eventually, we ended up in a situation where inherent problems in accounting systems became so urgent that it became 
apparent that the original architecture needed to be changed, if not rebuilt from scratch.

Before digging deeper, let’s take a look at the situation from a bird’s eye perspective and consider the most critical 
issues.

> *Financial accounting systems “speak different languages”*
> *Traditional security model is no longer effective*
> *Each system identifies its users independently*
> *Processes within the systems are non-transparent (sometimes even for the system owner)*
> *Digital data is vulnerable*

### Financial accounting systems “speak different languages”

*Even if APIs are open, they are different for each accounting system*

Given the absence of open APIs, today’s financial accounting systems cannot communicate with each other seamlessly 
(think of it as a language that you cannot learn and hence always require a translator).

Achieving at least minimal compatibility between systems is expensive in terms of time and money for both organizations 
and clients. Organizations need to maintain the systems, and eventually, end-clients pay up to $50 (sometimes even 
more) to conduct international money transfers. 

### A traditional security model is no longer effective

*Even if APIs have the same specifications, they do not use public key cryptography to protect messages during 
interaction*

Existing accounting systems no longer suit the current Internet threat model [1]. They all have a common property: they 
were designed to protect sensitive information from external threats. This led to the concept of a security perimeter. 
It assumes that in order to protect the system from threats, a “perimeter” is built: firewalls, thick walls, high 
fences, security wires, etc. Believe it or not, this is one of the reasons why we hear about devastating security 
breaches more and more often.

It is no longer effective to secure sensitive data by locking it behind a “strong door”. One example of this is the new 
BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) policy, which is being rapidly adopted by companies. It means that employees are no longer 
supplied with corporate but rather can use their own devices for work. While BYOD entails a great number of 
advantages—higher overall productivity of employees, which is the result of increased satisfaction and flexibility of 
work, reduced costs for a company in providing suitable resources for employees, etc.—a new problem is presented, and it 
primarily relates to the security concerns. Companies have to change their security policies in accordance with the new 
threats and risks. For example, an employee’s device (storing sensitive company data) could be connected to an insecure 
network, or that an employee could lose the device, and untrusted parties could retrieve any unsecured data on it, etc.

Now, look at Bitcoin: it is an accounting system that maintains the record of who owns how much while not having any 
physical perimeter protection such as fences, security guards, etc. You can’t just modify its ledger without having the 
keys from corresponding accounts. 

*EXAMPLE*

*Consider why people had stopped building forts. Forts had provided good protection against arrows, but once gunpowder 
artillery was invented, forts became immovable targets, and military doctrines had to accept that (the “transition” 
wasn’t fast, but this at least became a trigger for military strategists to accept the fact that they were doing 
something wrong). (Thanks to Pindar Wong for the vivid example.)*

The Financial Internet’s new security paradigm implies the usage of cryptographic keys. These keys are used to sign each 
request and thereby achieve integrity and authenticity of data [2]. 


